What is You In?

It’s 4:30 pm on a Friday afternoon and you’re about to get off work. You had a 
tough week and could really use an activity to unwind. Maybe you’d like to 
grab dinner or drinks with some friends, or get some friends together to play 
9 holes of golf, see a movie, or go on a hike. Either way it’s going to take 
some serious coordination to gather a group of friends on short notice. If you 
send a message to a group text it’ll get buried beneath hundreds of other 
messages and there won’t be any way to track who has responded. That’s where 
You In? comes in. You In? lets you send out an event invitation to a group of 
friends and track their responses. You In? doesn’t stop there; the app allows 
the event organizer to customize conditions for the event to happen. For 
example, the organizer can set a deadline and say the event needs at least 
5 people to accept the invitation by 6:30pm today in order for the event to 
happen. This approach solves the “I’ll go if other people go,” response 
because nobody is committed to attending the event unless it reaches the target 
number of people. The deadline allows the organizer ample time to coordinate 
once people have decided to go. Coordination might involve getting a dinner 
reservation, booking an activity, or buying any items that are needed. You In? 
will take the hassle out of coordinating events with friends so that you can 
focus on having fun.

Who’s going to use it?

The target audience for this application is everyone who organizes events with 
a friend group. The best place to start this app would be on a college campus 
but from there it could grow into the young professional community and ultimately 
to everyone using a mobile phone. Everyone plans informal get togethers, and this 
app makes that planning process incredibly easy.

Who are the stakeholders?

Nico Pollack: housemate “I think the idea is great and could potentially be really useful.”
Brian Powers: housemate “I always have trouble planning thing with groupme so this sounds 
like a good idea.”
Griffin Johnson: housemate “In this hustle and bustle world invitations and commitments in 
group texts are often transient and frivolous. It would be nice to really be nice to understand 
who is available when trying to plan a delightful evening on the town.”
Jake Kaplan: housemate “I think it would save me a lot of time and energy planning things that ultimately fall through.”
Derek Sims: housemate “My messages about dinner plans always get lost in chaotic group texts - this app 
would really help me when planning activities with friends” 
Drew Abatemarco: housemate: “My family always tries to make plans through group messages and we never 
end up settling on one thing to do. I think this would make planning family outings so much simpler.” 

What is the Core Functionality

The core functionality of You in? is sending highly customizable events to a group of people. 
Events will be crowdsourced, and can have an expiration date and time, set by the event creator. 
Every response is also visible -  making the decision to attend or decline more transparent. 
In addition to customizable events, users get to create profiles and groups. Some of this 
functionality can be achieved through leveraging facebook profiles, but other parts will need to 
be built independently.

What is the Secondary Functionality?

Secondary functionality could include integration with services like OpenTable, which would create 
dinner reservations for the set number of people attending at restaurants with reservations available. 
Event or restaurant suggestions would also be beneficial which could be achieved through Yelp integration, 
or creating an advertising platform where local businesses could post deals in order to try to attract business.

What mobile device features are necessary?

Notifications and Location Services.

What are the limitations?

One limitation is the creation of a backend. Neither of us has extensive experience writing server 
side code. Frank has taken Comp20 and believes that he will be able to create a simple backend that 
integrates with facebook. Frances has not taken Comp20 so she will have some difficulty writing the 
backend code. Another limitation is designing the data model, which needs thought, so that the app can run 
smoothly.
